How-to-guides: Resolving a Cherry pick failure (#60)
aviator-co/gitbook-docs: releases-beta/how-to-guides/resolving-a-cherry-pick-failure.md

> # Resolving a Cherry-Pick Failure

Reviewer: Both for this file and Custom Workflow parameters, please add the links in `SUMMARY.md`. Without it these files do not appear in the docs nav.

This guide walks you through the steps to handle a failed cherry-pick during a release process in Aviator. Cherry-picking allows you to selectively integrate specific changes (commits) into a base release. If a conflict occurs, you can resolve it manually.

Setup a repository, connect it to Aviator and [create a release project](./creating-a-release-project.md) for this guide.

> ## Create a Base Release

Reviewer: We should not need these steps. We are explaining a scenario of how to handle a Cherry pick, we do not need to explain how to create a cherrypick

Reviewer: Actually I discussed this with @draftcode and he suggested that we should keep these instructions. So please ignore my comment here.

1. Add a new file to your repository. For example, `echo "base" > test.txt`
2. Commit and push the changes to a different branch.
3. Create a pull request to the main branch.
4. Merge the PR into the main branch.
![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-base.png)
5. Cut a release: Create a new release based on this PR.
![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-base-cut.png)

> ## Raise Two more Pull Requests

Reviewer: This can also be removed. WE should start this doc by explaining something like:

Cherry picking is a common workflow ...
But sometimes a cherry pick can fail due to a merge conflict. This doc will explain how to manage such scenario

Reviewer: You can ignore this comment as well.

1. First PR: `Ensure test.txt` contains "base".
2. Modify the file: `echo "modify1" > conflict-test.txt`.
3. Commit and merge the PR.
![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-modify1.png)
4. Second PR: Confirm that conflict-test.txt shows modify1.
5. Modify the file again: `echo "modify2" > conflict-test.txt`.
6. Commit and merge the PR.
![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-modify2.png)

### Merge Conflict

> Let us create a merge conflict just for the tutorial. Go back to the Aviator Release Dashboard and Select the last PR (the one with modify2) to cherry-pick into the base release.

Reviewer: Let's start from here, and give steps on how to do the Cherry-pick on an existing release. E.g. Select a PR you want to cherry-pick and click on cherry-pick button ...

![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-cherry-pick.png)

You will see a red tag attached to the release "Failed to cherry-pick" because of the merge conflict. Now if you face a similar issue, you can resolve this by following the below steps.

## Resolve Merge Conflicts

> 1. After cherry-picking, you should see the conflict resolution PR link. Open the link and follow the instructions to resolve the conflict.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On this failed cherry-pick commit, you should see the conflict resolution PR link. Open the link and follow the instructions to resolve the conflict.
```

![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-action.png)

> 2. follow the steps provided by Aviator-app bot to resolve the conflict, ensure you pick modify2 as the final result.

Reviewer: Explain this part a bit more in details here. Don't mention `modify2`, but explain in generic terms explaining that the conflicting files will be flagged with the diffs and has to be resolved manually.

A user can either resolve it from GH UI or by fetching the branch in their dev environment to resolve.... (explain both of those ways)

![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-resolve.png)

> 3. After pushing the changes, you should be able to merge it successfully after reviewing the PR again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After pushing the changes to this branch, you should be able to merge the PR successfully. You may optionally also get this reviewed by a coworker for correctness.
```

Reviewer: Actually may be also mention that if they want strict review requirement, they should add a branch protection rules for `aviator/20*` requiring reviews before merging. But if they do this, make sure to allow Aviator to bypass the branch protection.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/release-conflict-resolve-merge.png)

> 4. Once you've resolved the conflict and merged the PR, the Release Candidate (RC) should show the correct version of the file with modify2. The release should be created successfully, reflecting the conflict resolution.

Reviewer: I think we are missing a step here, they have to still "Accept Resolution" for this to be accepted as a new RC.
